The last service mentioned before is AWS Lambda.
If you've used AWS before,
you're likely familiar with Lambda because it's one of AWS's most‑used
offerings. In AWS Lambda, you can create code without having to provision
or do the administration of physical servers.
This concept is called serverless because as a user,
you aren't responsible for provisioning or maintaining virtual servers.
In AWS Lambda,
AWS takes care of all the scaling and highly available features to
make sure that Lambda functions are fully usable and you only pay
for the compute time that you consume.
Lambda functions, when executed,
provision a server behind the scenes to run your code,
and then they automatically get decommissioned after a specified time period.
This is a powerful concept because as a user of AWS,
you're only paying for resources as your application is using them,
and you're not paying for anything when your application is
idle or doesn't have any active users.
AWS Lambda is my personal favorite service to use in conjunction with Cloud9.
In the AWS dashboard,
you can access Cloud9 to write code for a lambda function. Then, your
lambda function can be accessed or invoked via a REST API when it is
linked to a service called API Gateway.
When an API Gateway REST endpoint is called, either
by a user or by an application,
it can invoke a lambda function that will be executed on a temporary server
that AWS automatically provisions for the lambda function.
If you have lambda functions that need to be invoked by web applications,
native apps, or external services,
creating an API Gateway with this setup is usually the way to go.
The main reason I love using Cloud9 with lambda functions is that you
can write, edit, and actually have live debugging sessions of your
lambda functions directly in the AWS console. Linking Lambda with
Cloud9 really accelerates the development of lambda functions by
leveraging all of the key Cloud9 IDE features we've highlighted earlier in this course.